Feat/rpc methods WIP (#71)
kadena-io/KIPs: kip-0040.md

---
KIP: '0040'
Title: kadena_getNetworks_v1 API
Author: Danillo Felixdaal and Bart Huijgen
Status: Draft
Type: Standard
Category: Interface
Created: 2025-02-17
---

# kadena_getNetworks_v1 API

## Abstract

We propose the `kadena_getNetworks_v1` method to provide a list of networks known by the wallet. This allows dApps to present the user with a list of available networks and allow them to select one, as well as the ability to submit transactions on these wallet defined networks.

## Specification

### Method Definition

**Method Name:** `kadena_getNetworks_v1`

### Request Parameters

```typescript
interface GetNetworksRequest {
  // No parameters are required for this method.
}
```

### Response

The method returns a NetworkInfo object containing details about the active networks:

```ts
interface NetworkInfo {
  name: string // The human-readable name of the network.
  networkId: string // The unique identifier for the network (e.g., "mainnet01").
  url?: string // Optional: The network endpoint URL.

> }

Reviewer: See comments on KIP-0039

---
KIP: "0040"
Title: kadena_getNetworks_v1 API
Author: Danillo Felixdaal, Bart Huijgen and Albert Groothedde
Status: Draft
Type: Standard
Category: Interface
Created: 2025-02-17
---

# kadena_getNetworks_v1 API

## Abstract

This KIP standardizes the `kadena_getNetworks_v1` method to provide a list of networks known by the wallet. This allows dApps to present the user with a list of available networks and allow them to select one, as well as the ability to submit transactions on these wallet defined networks.

The dapp can use the URL to make /local calls from the network.

The wallet returns only the host. The dapp should append networkId and chainId
to the URL.

Example:

- Wallet returns: https://api.testnet.chainweb.com
- Dapp can send requests to:
  https://api.testnet.chainweb.com/chainweb/0.0/testnet04/chain/19/pact/api/v1/local

> [!NOTE]  
> For more information about Chainweb API see

> > [Chainweb API Documentation](api.chainweb.com)

Reviewer 2: Same comment as KIP 39. This seems out of place in this section. Best to add this after the Response type definition in the `Specification` section.

## Specification

### Method Definition

**Method Name:** `kadena_getNetworks_v1`

### Response

The method returns an Array of `NetworkInfo` objects, containing details about the active networks:

```ts
interface NetworkInfo {
  networkName: string; // The display name of the network (e.g., "mainnet").
  networkId: string; // The unique identifier for the network (e.g., "mainnet01").

>   url: string[]; // Optional: The root endpoint URL(s) of the network. This should be the base URL for sending commands (e.g., "https://api.chainweb.com") rather than the full command path. Placeholders for chainId should be managed by the client.

Reviewer 2: This was moved out of the comments and into the markdown

}
```

> The wallet might not want to expose the endpoint to the DApp. In that case the wallet can return an empty array.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the wallet implementation chooses not to expose the network endpoint, it MUST return an empty array for the `url` field.
```
Same for KIP 39 and KIP 41.
